# project_euler_py
This project will consist of python solutions to [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net) questions. Particular emphasis will be put on the efficiency and optimization of the solutions. If you are at all interested in working on Project Euler questions, or have a general interest in algorithms, I suggest trying some Project Euler questions out yourself prior to reading anyone else's solutions.

## Problem \#1 - Multiples of 3 and 5
### _Problem_:
If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23. Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

### _Solution(s)_:
_Solution 1_:

This solution loops through the multiples of both 3 and 5 which are less than the limit, in this case 1000. It also loops through the multiples of 15 (3\*5) in order to subtract the common multiples of 3 and 5.

_Solution 2_:

This solution takes advantage of the formula for the sum of an arithmetic progression, S<sub>n</sub> = n(a<sub>1</sub> + a<sub>n</sub>)/2.

The first step is to find the maximum multiples of 3, 5 and 15. Once this is done, we can calculate the solution using the above equation three times, adding the solutions for 3 and 5 and subtracting the solution for 15 to account for common multiples. n can be found by dividing the maximum multiple by the number it is a multiple of (eg. n for 3 will be 999/3 = 333 where 1000 is the limit).

The complexity of this algorithm is O(1).

_Solution 3_:

This solution checks each number below the limit for divisibility with 3 or 5 and adds those which are divisible to the final sum.

---

## Problem \#2 - Even Fibonacci Numbers
### _Problem_:
Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:
```
1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...
```
By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

### _Solution(s)_:
_Solution 1_:

